#### Note: This submission doesn't include all the GloVe files used as they were too large for submission system. They are available on my google drive and laptop for in person marking. If this is still an issue I can find some way to send them to you. 


## Step 1

- This baseline method is based off of the one found in [this](https://realpython.com/python-keras-text-classification/) tutorial.
- This uses the pre-trained glove.6B.50d model, which is stored locally to run. The current file path for this is "glove/glove.6B.50d.txt" which may need to be adjusted/downloaded to run on a different machine.
- Currently has the accuracy plot and model summary details displaying. This can be disabled by commenting out ```plt.show()``` and ```model.summary()``` respectively.
- This also uses the datasets from the same tutorial, which have been included in the ```data/``` folder. This means the model is running three times; one for each dataset.


This can be run with ```python cnn_base.py``` in the console.

## Step 2:

The dataset used for this is the PAN author profiling [dataset](https://pan.webis.de/clef19/pan19-web/author-profiling.html). Note: for the sake of time this model is only being tested on 10% of files in the pandata dataset. While a small percentage of the data, this should be around ~70,000 tweets which is a reasonable amount.

As the baseline method datasets only had two classes, some very slight changes had to made to run the baseline method on the new dataset:
  - Model is now using ```categorical_crossentropy``` as the loss function, due to there now being three classes (```binary_crossentropy``` would no longer make sense).
  - Output layer in model is now of size 3, reflective of this new loss function.
  - split test data into validation and test data (so model isnt learning via test)


  To run this model on the current dataset:
  - ```python cnn_base_extension_part_2.py``` in console

## Step 3:


#### How to run:

To run this model on the current dataset:
- ```python cnn_base_extension_part_3.py``` in console

To run this model on the old dataset(s):
- ```python cnn_base_extension_part_3_old_data.py``` in console



### Key Changes for Step 3:

#### Training GloVe on a custom corpus

One of the avenues I explored in improving the model was training my own GloVe model. This involves creating a text file of all words within the dataset. This can be generated by running ```python glove_prep.py``` in the console, which will generate a file called: ```full_pandata_corpus.txt```.

Next to train the model, the GloVe repository is needed:
- ```git clone https://github.com/stanfordnlp/GloVe.git``` in console

Next you need to modify the ```./demo.sh``` file in the GloVe repository.
- set CORPUS=full_pandata_corpus.txt
- change the line```if [ "$CORPUS" = 'text8' ]; then``` to ```if [ "$CORPUS" = 'full_pandata_corpus.txt' ]; then```
- remove the initial ```if``` script directly after ```make```

Finally run the script.
- ```cd GloVe```
- build: ```make``` in console
- and run: ```./demo.sh``` in console


#### Data pre-processing:

There wasn't any proper pre-processing done with the original model, so this was crucial to tackle.
I found a paper which used twitter data to see what pre-processing practices they used.

Paper 1: [Tweet Classification Using Deep Learning Approach to Predict Sensitive Personal Data](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-030-60975-7_2)

Steps they applied:
- lower casing
- removed punctuation
- removed stopwords
- removed urls
- removed mentions.
- applied stemming

Paper 2: [Tweet Classification Using Deep Learning Approach to Predict Sensitive Personal Dat](https://link-springer-com.helicon.vuw.ac.nz/chapter/10.1007%2F978-981-15-5558-9_17)

Steps they applied:
- lowercasing
- removing punctuation
- replaced urls with URL
- removed stop words
- applied stemming
- removed numbers
- replaced acronyms

Steps I took:
- converted text to lower case
- converted urls to "url"
    - I decided to keep this as tagging people in tweets can be indicative of a bot.
- removed stop words
- removed punctuation
- replaced mentions (@username) with "username"
    - I decided to keep this as tagging people in tweets can be indicative of a bot.

I also used nltk's stemming libraries, but in the end this step was not included in the final model.
Mainly due to needing to re-run the GloVe model to account for stemmed words, but also due to not seeing a noticeable difference in performance.


#### Hyper-Parameter Tuning

One area I explored was auto tuning hyper paramters for the model. This was done by implementing a random search method which automatically tests the specified paramters. These values can be found and tweaked in the ```param_grid``` dictionary.

The best paramters found with random search are then stored and ran on the model. Possibly a redundant step to re-test as there model is essentially unchanged, but this allows me to get epoch by epoch output, exclusively from the best model, as well as give extra epochs etc.

Parameters currently being automatically tuned:
- Dense Layer's Size
- Convolution Layer's Kernel Size
- Convolution Layer's Filter Size


#### Model Architecture:

Changes from baseline:

I've made this model similar to that used by LeNet and AlexNet, some older CNN's which where used for image classification.
This involved:
- Adding dropout layers to help combat overfitting
- Adding extra convolution layer
- Added extra dense layer
